Notes for Jamie — measured 2 September, evening, after his second letter.
Not a letter yet; these are the things worth sending with tomorrow's, each with
the measurement rather than the assertion.

1. THE HEADER CHUNK HAS A ONE-WORD FIX, AND IT IS A FLAG

He is adding a test that fails if any shipped file carries a LIST chunk. The
thing that puts it there is ffmpeg stamping its own muxer name, and it survives
`-map_metadata -1`, which is why it looked like it had been stripped.

Measured here: a FLAC written with `-map_metadata -1` alone still reports
`TAG:encoder=Lavf62.12.100` to ffprobe. The same command with `-bitexact` added
reports nothing at all. Our freezer has carried `-bitexact` since the v2 set,
which is the only reason set A r2 is clean — checked on the shipped files just
now, all three sampled report an empty tag set.

And the check we repaired this afternoon reads both format AND stream tags. Run
against his set B: `has_tags` returns True on b001.wav. **Our freezer would have
refused to ship his set**, which is the outcome he wants his new test to produce.
So the pair is: `-bitexact` at write time, and a tag check that reads stream tags
as well as format tags at freeze time.

2. FREE FORMAT: HIS CONSTRAINT IS EXACT, WITH THE NUMBERS

Checked rather than believed, because it decides how set C is built:

  10 s of 44.1 kHz stereo, LAME 3.100 `--freeformat -b 512` -> 643,656 bytes
  (~515 kbps).
  `ffmpeg -i free512.mp3 out.wav` -> `[mp3float] Header missing`, repeated 199
  times, no audio produced. Exit is not the problem; the silence is.
  `lame --decode free512.mp3 out.wav` -> 1,764,044 bytes, correct.

Our own arm builder encodes through ffmpeg's libmp3lame, which can neither write
nor read free format, so if we ever build that arm it has to shell out to LAME
too. `ml/free_format.py` now carries the decode path, and it hashes the decoder
binary before executing it — the rule we already applied to his encoder
collection. Sending the decoder build with its hash is the right call, and a week
early is better than on the day.

3. HIS EXCERPT PROBLEM, ASKED OF OUR OWN ENGINE

His first confession — a number priced on one excerpt, quoted as if it belonged
to the file — is the kind that transposes, so it was asked here rather than
assumed away.

What the audit found, before any measurement: our accusing rules do not share the
defect in the same shape. Rules 11, 13, 14 and 15 read the WHOLE file, not an
excerpt. Rule 10 compares two segments and escalates to five when they disagree.
The spectral path samples three positions — start, middle, end. And rule 12, the
CNN, used to infer on a single 10-second window from the middle of the file and
was repaired for exactly his reason: the comment in the source says a quiet
intro or a band-limited bridge made the verdict hostage to one segment. It now
samples three evenly spaced windows and surfaces their spread.

So the excerpt length only reaches the spectral and quality paths. That is not
the same as knowing our verdicts are stable, which nobody here had measured
either, so it was measured: forty files — two band-limited sources and three
full-band ones, all eight arms of each — scored at 15, 30 and 60 seconds.

**Zero verdicts moved.** Not one conviction gained or lost, not one signalling
change, at either comparison against the 30 s baseline.

That number came with a warning attached, and the warning is worth more than the
result. The 15 s and 60 s verdict files came out byte-identical, hash and all,
which is exactly what a knob that does nothing produces. So the knob was given a
positive control before the stability was believed: calling the spectral analysis
directly at the three lengths on five files shows the measured energy ratio does
move — 0.003147, 0.002950, 0.002933 on one of them — while the detected cutoff
does not move by a single hertz. The parameter is live. What is stable is the
cutoff, because an encoder's wall is a property of the file rather than of the
window you look at it through, and the cutoff is what the scoring rules read.

Two limits on that, stated rather than left for him to find. The files are
60-second excerpts already, so this varies the window inside an excerpt, not the
choice of excerpt from a full track — on a real track the spectral path takes
three positions rather than one, which is a different regime and untested here.
And forty files is forty files.

His defect and ours are therefore not the same shape, but the question was worth
asking in his terms, and the answer only means anything because the knob was
proved live first.
