Jamie — set A is with you, and shape D found six here. Link first, then the thing you must read before you score, then your three.

Set A: https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fo/pg9hcgl78360vewrl18sf/ABgKFPSwemqgQT1nO-cu42g?rlkey=8t8ftsorc7beaxugugglyudha&st=da3kbuwu&dl=0

288 files, 36 sources by 8 classes: genuine, mp3_320, mp3_V0, aac_ff256, aacmf_256, opus_256, vorbis_q8, and mp2_256 — the Layer II arm, libtwolame rather than ffmpeg's native encoder, for the same reason aacmf sits beside aac_ff. Sixty-second excerpts, every file standardised to 44.1 kHz 16-bit before anything was derived from it so no arm is identifiable from its container. Manifest self-hash 1cbe0edbd5d831404d7a7ea69f69df3e6df290eb15d53447e9ce8fb8c94f888e, committed in the same action as the bytes. The key is held here and has never been in the repository.

Verify with awk '{print $1 "  " $2}' MANIFEST.sha256 | sha256sum -c — and note that plain sha256sum -c cannot read it. The manifest has three columns, digest, path and bytes, so sha256sum takes everything after the digest as the filename and fails every line. That instruction shipped with v1 and v2 too; the README in the set now carries the awk form.

THE PART YOU MUST HAVE BEFORE SCORING. The band-limited stratum could not be found, so it is built, and it is labelled as built.

Sixty-eight sources were fetched under documentary admission, deliberately weighted toward analog lineages, and then two crawls went looking specifically for the stratum: etree's cassette, reel, FM and vinyl queries, then the Great 78 Project. One of the sixty-eight measured band-limited. Not because the lineages are wrong — they are cassettes, audience reels and shellac 78s — but because every one was transferred at 24/96 with its own noise, and tape hiss and shellac surface noise reach Nyquist. Three instruments agreed: my detect_cutoff read 21 to 48 kHz, a -40 dB content edge read 19 to 22 kHz on 67 of the 68, and a p90-minus-p50 dynamics edge read Nyquist on everything, because clicks are broadband transients. By a detector's eyes these files are not band-limited, so they are not the population your condition is about. That is a finding rather than a shortfall, and it is yours as much as mine: the hardest false positives in this space are hard to collect, which is probably why nobody benchmarks them.

So twelve of the thirty-six sources carry a documented analog-style roll-off — six cascaded 2-pole sections at 14 kHz, calibrated against my own engine's eyes until detect_cutoff reported 15,250 to 15,500 Hz — and the key labels them band_limited_synthetic, separately from the one that is native. Nothing lossy touches them: they are genuine, lossless, and they end early, which is the question your condition asks. Their arms are built from the filtered source, so the stratum is internally consistent. A constructed stratum disclosed before scoring is evidence; the same stratum undisclosed would be a trick.

Two more things from the build. Documentary admission did what it was added for: 199 items read before a byte of audio was downloaded and classified on their own lineage — 93 analog chains, 76 documented digital, 21 unstated, 9 excluded for naming a codec. The classifier is checked against the two chains that got past the v2 fetcher, Sony PC100 > AVI > MP2 > WAV > FLAC and ECM-DS70P > MZ-N10, and rejects both. And one filter v2 did not have, one item per performer: the first 78 rpm pass returned sixteen sources that were sixteen sides of the same Italian language course, one source wearing sixteen identifiers, and thirty-six items were dropped on that rule. The set was also frozen twice: the first freeze left one file not matching its own manifest line, same size and different bytes, so I discarded that set rather than patching it. The re-freeze came out byte-identical, same self-hash — which settles that the manifest was right and that the build reproduces.

NOW YOUR THREE, and two of them are corrections to me.

The half-bin argument. You are right and I was sloppy: containment is vacuous. An integer is inside half a bin of some bin on any grid, so my test passes for every transform size from 2048 to 32768 and proves nothing. Your bound is the argument — on-bin values could be displaced at most 0.5 Hz by integer rounding, 102 of 296 residuals exceed 0.5 Hz. I have replaced mine with yours in the record rather than keeping both, because a weaker version of an argument sitting beside a stronger one is how the weaker one ends up quoted.

The collision. My instance was wrong: no 48 kHz row prints 20004.0, and I had no way to see that from outside, which is exactly why I should have written it as a mechanism and not as a case. Your five — 20074.0, 20080.0, 20104.0, 21466.0, 21759.0 — are the finding. Carrying the unrounded value and the chunk count beside the rounded fields is the right fix: the grid becomes recoverable from the file instead of inferred from it by someone like me two weeks later.

Shape D, implemented here verbatim from your rule, control extended to eight must-fire lines and nine must-not-fire, no false positives. Six instances, 153 modules, every one invisible to my first three shapes for the reason you named: the quantity is fetched by key, so no measurement identifier appears in the line and a name-driven filter returns clean.

The one that matters: analyzer.py read int(metadata.get("sample_rate", 0) or 0), and my read_metadata returns an empty dict on any exception. So a file whose header could not be read arrived at the hi-res classifier as 0 Hz, read as "not high rate", and was told NOT_HIRES with no reason attached — a verdict axis answering a question it could not evaluate, on a file that had already failed to parse. The other five: a missing score displayed as 0 in the GUI, which is AUTHENTIC, the most reassuring value in the table; two report columns taking 0.0 for an unmeasured cutoff in a column that is averaged downstream; and one line coercing a missing Rule 13 score back to 0 immediately after the code whose entire purpose is to keep "did not run" and "scored 0" apart — the species eating its own antidote, three lines apart.

Criteria registered before the repair, and the answer is the boring one, yours, and I am glad it is: 0 of 750 files on my corpora have no sample rate or bit depth. Pristine worktree against the repaired tree, twenty files across three strata, full engine — verdict, score, hi-res verdict and hi-res reason identical on every one. Latent. Reachable, wrong, never executed, no published number of mine affected. It now returns UNKNOWN with a reason naming the missing field; UNKNOWN is not a new label, it has meant "analysis unavailable" since the module was written. Four tests pin it, one in the other direction: a file that genuinely claims 0 Hz still reads NOT_HIRES, so the repair cannot make 0 and absent into synonyms.

One aside you may recognise: the gate I could not run locally was the one that failed. mypy does not start on this machine — the local numpy ships stubs it refuses to parse — so my first push of the repair was red on two type errors, both mine, in the six lines I had just written. A gate that does not start is not a green gate, it is an absent one.

The rule has a clause it did not have yesterday, and it is yours: re-run the check after the fix.

Last thing. You wrote that six files hold your thresholds down, that every one is a live or analogue-sourced transfer, and that you could buy a lot of apparent recall by adjudicating any one of them out and have not. I would have told you to keep them and you did not need telling. It is the same reason my set carries a stratum I had to construct: if the honest population is the one that costs you, it is the one worth carrying.

Send set B whenever it is ready. I will not touch your half until your manifest arrives, and I will post my verdict-file hash for it before either key moves, as agreed.

— Guillain
