Jamie — the census, owed since the key letter.

I said the count on my side was not lower than your nine and that I would send it
in the same form once the scoring was done. The scoring is done. Here it is,
oldest first, with what each one cost and what caught it. I have counted a
species once even where it recurred, and I have said which ones recurred, because
a species that comes back twice after being named is worse than a new one.

Twelve, and four of them found after I wrote you that sentence — the last one
this morning, by refusing to accept my own reassuring answer.


1. THE TYPED ABSENCE (v1.13.1, 30 August)

A defect that ran long enough to become part of the calibration. Fixing it blind
cost 44 convictions on 132 files, because the constants had been chosen on top of
it. The repair was not to remove it but to MOVE the constant, with before and
after measured and the criteria written in advance.

Caught by: an audit of what "absent" meant at each layer.
Recurred: no.


2. THE FREEZER THAT NEVER REFUSED (31 August)

The frame-count audit written after set A leaked its arms through file LENGTH —
108 of 288 files announced their own class without a byte being decoded. The
repair wrote its failure into a local named `ok` that nothing read, and the
function returned True regardless. It logged the leak and shipped the set. Second
fault in the same function: the audit sat inside a branch that only ran when
sample rates had been collected, so it could be skipped in silence.

This is the one I described to you as "a check in the freezer rather than a check
in my attention". It was neither.

Caught by: sweeping for the pattern, two hours after reading your account of the
inert timestamp client. Yours printed into a console nobody watched; mine wrote
into a variable nobody read.
Recurred: yes, see 9.


3. THE CORROBORATION BARRIER UNPLUGGED BY ITS OWN REPAIR (1 September)

The barrier requires two independent evidence families before a conviction. A
repair that collapsed dependent families into one name left the barrier counting
the collapsed pair as two.

Caught by: reading who consumed the result of the repair. This is where the rule
came from that you have since written into your own notes — after any repair that
adds a check, grep for who reads its result.
Recurred: no.


4. THE `+` THAT COULD NOT BE READ BACK (1 September)

Since v1.13.5 a collapsed pair is itself named `cnn+spectral`, and the verdict
file joined evidence families with `+`. The merged witness silently became two
again on read-back — in the very file you score me on.

Caught by: rehearsing the whole path end to end on six files instead of assuming
it. Repeat, do not suppose.
Recurred: yes — the v1.13.4 worktree still carried the `+` version yesterday and
would have made your two columns incomparable. Caught before the pass ran.


5. A CONSTANT CHOSEN ON THE MATERIAL THAT COULD NOT PRICE IT (1 September)

The independence guard needed a frequency. Taking 17,000 Hz by symmetry with the
neighbouring guard showed zero cost on set A — and would have destroyed three
TRUE convictions on 128 kbps material, where a low-bitrate transcode and a
genuinely band-limited transfer both live at 15-16 kHz. Every arm in set A is 256
kbps or better, so the set could not see the cost. 16,000 was correct.

Caught by: building the low-rate arms BEFORE choosing the constant.
Recurred: no. This is why I want the low rates in set C before any constant is
chosen on them.


6. A DOCUMENT DESCRIBING AN ENGINE THAT DOES NOT EXIST (2 September)

A document described the shipped engine as carrying an instrument that only the
research tree has. Your excerpt-length global, bound at import in one place and
read at call in another, is the same species in a different costume: the
description and the artefact had drifted apart and nothing compared them.

Caught by: reading the consumer's code rather than the comment.
Recurred: yes, immediately and worse — see 7.


7. THE KEY THAT DID NOT CARRY WHAT I TOLD YOU IT CARRIED (2 September)

On 31 August I wrote to you: "the key labels them band_limited_synthetic". It did
not. The set A r2 key carried `labels` and nothing else, and the root cause was
not a lost block — the freezer had NEVER written a stratum map at all. The pre-r2
key came from another path entirely.

Two days, and it surfaced only because I read what I was about to send you
against what I had told you it contained.

Caught by: checking the artefact against the claim, at the last possible moment.
Repaired: `build_key` now refuses to write a key unless a stratum map covers
every source or the set is declared unstratified in so many words. Demonstrated
against the real r2 key, which it refuses. Six tests.


8. A FAILURE TO VERIFY, REPORTED AS A CLEAN FILE (2 September)

`has_tags` returned False — "no metadata" — whenever ffprobe was missing, timed
out, or exited non-zero. A file nobody had inspected shipped as clean, and one
surviving `encoder` tag hands you the answer for that file. It also read only
format tags, while ffmpeg writes an encoder string into stream tags too — which
is the shape of the leak your set B carried.

Caught by: sweeping for `except` clauses that return the value meaning "fine".
That is the same shape as `ok = False` never read, one layer up.
Repaired, and then exercised on real files rather than mocks: our shipped set
reports no tags at all, yours reports `encoder=Lavf62.19.101`, and the repaired
check would have refused to ship your set. The flag that makes the difference is
`-bitexact`, which our freezer has carried since v2 — that is the whole of the
fix you are adding a test for.


9. A NUMBER AVERAGED OVER A STRATUM I BUILT MYSELF (2 September)

I reported your research column as 81, 72 and 64 per cent — pooled across a
stratum I constructed, declared, and held the map for. You split it and returned
the real shape. The arithmetic was right and the number was not about your
instrument.

Caught by: you.
And the first thing the split showed was about me: zero convictions on
band-limited sources on every arm I carry.


10. MEASURING FROM INSIDE A SYNCED FOLDER (2 September)

A file of the frozen set A r2 became a Dropbox files-on-demand reparse point and
lost 50,794 bytes while I was reading it. The rule that a frozen set has one
measurement copy and it lives outside the sync folder was written down after the
v2 round. I pointed the pass at the copy under `Temp/` anyway.

Caught by: the read-time manifest check, which refused to score rather than
publish a verdict about rotten bytes. That guard earned its place. Re-run from
the intact copy, the verdict file hashes identically, so nothing I sent you
depended on it.
Recurred: yes, in a second costume the same evening — see 11.


11. THE WRONG DIAGNOSIS, WHICH IS ITS OWN SPECIES (2 September)

A test run ended in `INTERNALERROR` with 461 tests passing above it. I wrote it
down as contention from two parallel jobs, added "one heavy job at a time" to the
rules, and moved on. It happened again with nothing else running.

The trace had named the real cause both times: coverage deletes its data file,
Windows answers `WinError 32`, and Dropbox is holding it — the repository is
inside the sync folder, same root as 10. Confirmed by fixing it rather than by
reasoning about it: with the coverage file pointed outside, the same suite exits
0 with 469 passing.

I am counting this as a species because it is one, and it is the one I am least
comfortable with. A plausible cause, adopted quickly, written into the rules as a
lesson, and wrong. The rule it produced was not even bad advice — it was just not
what was happening, and it would have sat there covering the real cause.


12. A RATE QUOTED AS A PROPERTY OF THE FILES (3 September, after your letter)

Your first confession was a number priced on one excerpt and quoted as though it
belonged to the file. Asking the same of our engine gave a reassuring answer
twice — no verdict moves when the excerpt LENGTH changes, on forty exchange files
and then on twelve full tracks — and both answers were to a narrower question
than yours. Length is not position, and our spectral path anchors its samples at
fixed fractions of a file, so changing the length can never separate the two.

Cutting twelve tracks in half and scoring each half as its own file:

    TR320_04   WARNING (50)     ->  AUTHENTIC (0)
    TRVORB_02  AUTHENTIC (0)    ->  SUSPICIOUS (55)
    TRVORB_03  SUSPICIOUS (55)  ->  FAKE_CERTAIN (85)
    TRVORB_04  SUSPICIOUS (55)  ->  FAKE_CERTAIN (55)

Four of twelve, all on transcoded material, and six of twelve differ on score
even where the tier holds. The four lawful files are stable at zero.

Caught by: refusing to stop at the second reassuring answer, and asking what
question the measurement had actually answered.
Cost: every arm rate we have published is a rate for the excerpts we cut, not for
the tracks they came from. It does not move the exchange figures — both halves
scored identical bytes — and it puts a qualifier on all of them.

WHAT THE LIST SAYS

Four of the twelve are the same shape: a check that runs, logs, and prevents
nothing (2, 3, 8) or a claim that has drifted from its artefact (6, 7). Three are
a number priced on material or a window that could not price it (5, 9, 12). Two
are a synced folder pretending to be a disk (10, 11).

The one that worries me is 11, because the other eleven were found by looking, and
that one was found by being wrong in public and then being contradicted by my own
machine. I have no method for that yet beyond re-running things alone before
believing them.

Your nine and my twelve are not a score. Neither of us is finding these because
we are careless; we are finding them because we are both looking, and the ones
that frighten me are the species neither list contains.

-- Guillain
